---
title: "Eliminating Backdoors in Neural Code Models for Secure Code Understanding"
authors:
    - Weisong Sun, Yuchen Chen, Chunrong Fang<sup>*</sup>, Yebo Feng, <strong>Yuan Xiao</strong>, An Guo, Quanjun Zhang, Zhenyu Chen<sup>*</sup>, Baowen Xu, Yang Liu
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/fse2025
excerpt: ''
date: 2025-06-01
venue: 'The ACM International Conference on the Foundations of Software Engineering'
location: 'Norway'
githuburl: 'https://github.com/wssun/EliBadCode'
paperurl: 'http://xiaoyuanpigo.github.io/files/fse2025.pdf'
weight: 3
# citation: '@inproceedings{sunEliminating2025,
#   title={Eliminating Backdoors in Neural Code Models for Secure Code Understanding},
#   author={Weisong Sun, Yuchen Chen, Chunrong Fang, Yebo Feng, Yuan Xiao, An Guo, Quanjun Zhang, Zhenyu Chen, Baowen Xu，and Yang Liu},
#   booktitle={The ACM International Conference on the Foundations of Software Engineering},
#   year={2025}
# }'
---

Neural code models (NCMs) have been widely used to address various code understanding tasks, such as defect detection. 
However, numerous recent studies reveal that such models are vulnerable to backdoor attacks. Backdoored NCMs function normally on normal/clean code snippets, but exhibit adversary-expected behavior on poisoned code snippets injected with the adversary-crafted trigger.
It poses a significant security threat. For example, a backdoored defect detection model may misclassify user-submitted defective code as non-defective. If this insecure code is then integrated into critical systems, like autonomous driving systems, it could jeopardize life safety. 
Therefore, there is an urgent need for effective techniques to detect and eliminate backdoors stealthily implanted in NCMs. 

To address this issue, in this paper, we innovatively propose a backdoor elimination technique for secure code understanding, called EliBadCode. 
EliBadCode eliminates backdoors in NCMs by inverting/reverse-engineering and unlearning backdoor triggers. 
Specifically, EliBadCode first filters the model vocabulary for trigger tokens based on the naming conventions of specific programming languages to reduce the trigger search space and cost. 
Then, EliBadCode introduces a sample-specific trigger position identification method, which can reduce the interference of non-backdoor (adversarial) perturbations for subsequent trigger inversion, thereby producing effective inverted backdoor triggers efficiently. Backdoor triggers can be viewed as backdoor (adversarial) perturbations. 
Subsequently, EliBadCode employs a Greedy Coordinate Gradient algorithm to optimize the inverted trigger and designs a trigger anchoring method to purify the inverted trigger. 
Finally, EliBadCode eliminates backdoors through model unlearning.
We evaluate the effectiveness of EliBadCode in eliminating backdoors implanted in multiple NCMs used for three safety-critical code understanding tasks. 
The results demonstrate that EliBadCode can effectively eliminate backdoors while having minimal adverse effects on the normal functionality of the model. 
For instance, on defect detection tasks, EliBadCode substantially decreases the average Attack Success Rate (ASR) of the advanced backdoor attack from 99.76% to 2.64%, significantly outperforming the three baselines.
The clean model produced by EliCode exhibits an average decrease in defect prediction accuracy of only 0.01% (the same as the baseline).
